With that, right?
I think it would be interesting
to look at what it would take
to actually trigger
a file system dialog or
something along those lines and
play around with that.
Now, eventually where we choose to go
with this towards the end of this little
section together is I would like it when
I hit the open file button to do it.
All right, but we'll get there cuz we're
still somewhat new at the bridging
the gap, if you will, between the main
process and the renderer process.
So let's kind of just start by, cool,
can I do an OS thing
from inside of electron?
And then we'll get the two way
communication of when they click this
button, then tell the main process,
I would like a file open dialog,
let them pick the file, read the file in the
main process, send me the content over to
the render process so
I can display it in the DOM, right?
That's kind of the first exercise we're
gonna kind of do together as a group
is just kind of getting that full
flow from interaction to file system,
access, back into rendering into the DOM,
right?
So that kind of first mission together.
Like I said,
there are a whole bunch of modules in
here that we can pull from and use.
One of the ones we're gonna need
in this case is our good friend,
the dialog module, Right?
And so dialog module is
the ability to open dialogs,
file, save dialogs, so on so forth.
And the ability to customize them in
a lot of interesting ways as well.
And so we gonna just give
ourselves some room down here, and
we'll go ahead and we will say something
along the lines of, showOpenDialog, right?
And that's gonna, yeah, it'll be an async
function cuz, again, most of these things
these days will return promises, which
means we can use them with async await.
So in that case we can go ahead
pull this down and then we'll say,
yeah, this is the result and so
we'll await this dialog.showOpenDialog.
And there's a bunch of properties
you can give this, right?
See if we can actually look at
the TypeScript answers here, right?
And so you can configure it and customize
it and a lot of ways you might not be able
to normally do in Chromium or in just
regular Chrome in the browser, right?
When we want an open file,
you can let them open an entire directory.
Do we want to let them
pick more than one file?
Show hidden files?
Do I give them the ability
to create a directory?
You have a lot of abilities
to customize this.
Do not add to recent.
A bunch of different options here where
you have a lot more control than you would
ever have, there are a lot of these.
It's one of those things where there's
a lot of component parts of electron and
at the same time you get a bunch of new
browser API's that also give you a bunch
of cool stuff, right?
But always I think the full level
cuz these are hooking into a lot of
the MacOS and Windows frameworks directly.
And so you will always get a little
bit more customization than you get in
the browser as well.
So here we're just saying one for
just open a file and
then whatever they choose
will be saved in this result.
And we will wait until we actually
trigger one of these to kind
of see what that looks like.
So, at this point we're just gonna
ask them to pick a file and
then we're just going to see what we
get back from that module, right?
And so what I'll probably do in this case
is I'm just gonna say showOpenDialog,
which is kind of where it
means the app will start up,
and immediately,
as soon as it's got the focus,
ask me for what kind of file I wanna open,
and like I said before.
We just know that it will console log it,
right?
Cool, so let's go ahead and
I'm going to then just kill this and
restart it And
you can see that I get a file open
dialog here as well, right?
And I can pick a file, we'll go ahead and
grab this and
you can see that we get this array.
We did not cancel.
That's important cuz they could
choose to not open a file, right?
And then we get an array of
the files that they selected.
Now obviously an array,
because we saw that we had the ability,
we can turn off or turn on the ability
to select multiple files, right?
In this case, and I will kinda kill
this app and restart it again.
You will see that I cannot pick, you'll
see that I have not picked more than one.
I know that I'm trying to hold Shift and
click on the second one, but
I can't pick more than
one file in this case.
And so then we have that we can see,
the canceled is false and
we have the directory of files, right?
And so we've gotten an initial
piece in here as well.
We can also do something really cool,
which is,
this application supports
rendering markdown files as HTML.
So do I want to let them
open an image file?
Probably not, right?
I probably wanna scope it
only to markdown files.
And so what I'm able to do there is I can
actually give it this filters, right?
I can actually say,
we will say name, and again,
this name Markdown Files is actually,
you will not see it on MacOS,
you will only see that one
on Windows where it's,
where you pick the file type or
something along those lines.
That is not something that will appear on
MacOS, that'll only appear on Windows.
So some of these things are a little
bit platform specific, that said,
for a lot of the ones that we're gonna
do the sheer amount of code that I
have to write for some of these platform
specific niceties is very little,
this ain't bothering anyone even
if we only use it on MacOS.
In fact, we can argue that it's somewhat
at least adding clarity to my code.
All right,
it's not the worst thing in the world.
And we got that in place.
And again,
if you wanna also say dot mark down, yeah,
put it whatever you want in there, right?
It doesn't matter.
That'll all work.
And then let's go ahead, I'm just going
to take a screenshot, for instance.
And we'll go ahead and we'll drag it into
this important documents folder as well,
so that we can verify that screen shot.
Cool, so
now I've got that filter in place.
Let's go ahead and
we'll start our code back up.
Boom, we'll go over to our app.
And if I go into that important documents,
I cannot pick the screenshot, right?
Cuz I've said only things that end in
a dot MD that are marked down files.
Yeah, theoretically,
could I allow text files?
Yeah, I could allow all those things,
right?
But for the most part, I can get very
specific about what they can and
cannot open.
I don't necessarily have to have very
defensive code later to make sure there's
a file that I know about.
And yeah, arguably,
maybe you should still have the defensive
code just in case, but the idea that you
can have full control of this window I
think is incredibly powerful as well.
Great, and as you can see that time
I cancelled it at this point I get
cancelled as true, and
I don't think about it.
So then we come down to the fact
that we have a file path, right?
So then the next step is,
I guess, to read the file.
Does anyone wanna take a wild
guess on how to read a file?
It's just a node library for reading
a file, you just have access to node.
>> FS.
>> FS, I am a gentleman, so for
me it's gonna be FS promises.
In this case we'll do read file,
and there's again,
like if you said open directory,
you could do the read outer.
You have all of the options to read
files and node available to you.
And if you want to use any of the other
libraries that are abstractions around
to the FS library node like any other
file system like replacement libraries,
those all work to.
And this is a node process.
Anything like new node you can do here,
you're just running a predetermined
version of node, given the electron
version that you're running and which and
yeah, again, considering this is
electron 26, it is most likely maybe one
minor version or patch version back or
something along those lines.
So we could theoretically,
we know that if the result is canceled,
just return, I don't want to do anything.
And then we'll say give me the first
filePath from all those filePaths.
And again, these are mostly
somewhat both defensive coding and
then also some of us here need
to appease TypeScript as well.
But I think it assumes that
if I haven't canceled it,
that I have at least one filePath,
so that's good.
So we can do content equals readFile or
await readFile and
read that file and we should.
Let's go ahead and we'll console log both,
the content and the result in this case.
Cool, I'll go ahead and
I will go grab a file
As you can see, the content is
the mark down that is in the file.
The result is what we saw previously,
right?
Now I have the ability to trigger
a file system dialog from my UI,
then have that determine which one node
is gonna read from and read the file.
I am getting dangerously close
to actually getting it into
the render context at this point, and so
there's a few little slight tweaks
that I might choose to do here.
That I'm just gonna kinda refactor it
slightly because I know future me is gonna
want some of these refactors, right?
>> Is there a way to get this code to
load without having to restart the app
every time?
>> You can try to use nodemon or something
along those lines any of the things that
will automatically restart
the code every single time, right?
Will work as well.
In so far that I am triggering
file system dialogs, and
stuff along those lines right now,
I just chose to keep my life simple, and
be manual about it, but yeah,
your client side code with Vite or
Webpack will automatically
do the hot module reloading.
Your server side code, the same way you
can automatically restart any node server,
if you like nodemon great,
if there's some other library you'd
like to use that will work as well.
Those are options you can either,
NPM, install dash D them and
then use an NPX or
you can just globally install those and
choose to nodemon this instead of NPM
start that will work for you as well.
I am personally going to choose not to.
I just don't need to add extra chaos
elements while I'm live coding, right?
Cuz no one wants me to stop and
debug if I have some kind of
boo boo along those lines.
So yeah, so the one thing that I just
wanna do here as a quick refactor
is just separate out the idea of
choosing a file and opening a file.
Because we know that right now,
I can trigger showOpenDialog, but
eventually on a long enough timeline, and
yeah, we won't get to all of these today.
But there are other ways to open a file,
right?
There's dragging it into the window,
And you might choose to use that API
that's available in the browser to
communicate that you wanna open a file.
There's using a file open menu, right?
For a given window or
something along those lines.
There's a ton of different
ways to do this, right?
And so I just don't necessarily
want to have both of those
pieces of functionality
necessarily tied to each other.
And we'll see why in a little bit.
So I'm just gonna separate out
the idea of opening a file.
And here we'll just say that opening file
will take some kind of filePath that
is gonna be a string.
And again this that is the level
of TypeScript that I'm dealing
with right now.
It's just saying that my argument is
a string and getting that safety.
Other than that we've been doing
TypeScript the entire time, and
you haven't necessarily noticed.
So we got that in place.
And then what we'll do is we'll just
kind of start by pulling this out.
And we'll just say,
we might even choose to return
the filePath in the showOpenDialog.
I don't know necessarily what
I want totally just yet.
But we'll figure it out as we get there,
right?
So basically the same code except
now we've just separated it
out just a teeny bit as well.
There are a few other niceties and
this one is a "MacOS only" one.
But like I said it won't do
anything different on Windows,
you will see no difference in the same
way this didn't do anything on MacOS.
Everyone's gonna get some niceties for
themselves is that it is less apparent
in modern versions of MacOS, but if
you've been on Mac a little bit, remember
when it used to have that whole animation
where it would come down from the title
bar in an accordion or whatever, like
a curtain that was coming down, right?
There's a way to get that effect as well.
Right now, my showOpenDialog just
kind of pops in front of the window.
We can have it effectively
attached to the window as well.
And because it is shockingly easy to do,
and I will also need this functionality
later, we're gonna do it.
So we'll just say that our
showOpenDialog will take
some kind of browser window,
which is gonna be a browser window.
Again, that is the amount of TypeScript
that I need to deal with in my life
right now.
And we can pass it in as the first
argument to the showOpenDialog.
And what that does
effectively on MacOS and
MacOS only will effectively attach
showOpenDialog to that window, right?
And again, if you're running
a slightly older version of MacOS,
this will be more dramatic
than what we're about to see.
But it's still a present and real thing.
See this is why I use TypeScript because
I was about to go and look at it and
it was not gonna work because I did not
pass in that mainWindow to that function.
I was why do I have a red
dot next to my index.ts is
because my code was broken and
because types are good.
So with that, We can start it up.
Now you can see that it is
kinda attached this window and
as I move this window around, it's not the
same dramatic fully attached sheet that it
was in previous versions of MacOS but it
is now very much attached to this window.
If you are Windows or
Linux you notice nothing.
In the same way that when we put that
markdown files in the filters those of us
on MacOS notice nothing, everyone gets
to notice nothing in a different sense.
But those little accoutrements
are the things that separate this feeling,
some janky app, why did I download
and install this on my computer to
a thing that fits into that OS, right?
And we are somewhat lucky because we're so
used to web apps that we don't necessarily
have to, are there UI libraries that
seek to make the buttons look like MacOS
or Windows buttons using CSS there are.
I sense my personal belief system is
that there's an uncanny valley there,
which is if you try to make it
look exactly like MacOS using CSS,
you will get 80% there and
that is worse than not trying.
But generally speaking, when we can get
some of these nice things, we'll see
some other things we can do along the way,
we should go for it because it's good.
So we've got that there as well.